---
title: Critique of Oz Crypto’s Analysis of Hedera
date: 2022-12-08T20:00:00+00:00
author: HBAR Sojourner
layout: post
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

I recently stumbled upon a video by would-be crypto influencer, Oz Crypto, entitled “[I Just Sold ALL of My HBAR - Here’s Why](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYyr6BmA_Mk)”. In the video, the presenter discusses the Hedera DLT network, highlighting areas he believes are cautionary. The issue, however, is that the presenter appears to lack a fundamental understanding of the subject he seeks to address. I decided to engage with the presenter’s content by leaving a comment challenging a number of statements in the video, but the comment mysteriously vanished. Since YouTube allows channel owners to delete comments they don’t like, I decided to provide a critique here to share with the crypto community.

# Introductions

The video begins by the provision of a disclaimer that the speaker has sold all his HBAR because of his “research” followed by a preemptive acknowledgement that he expects to receive critique (or in his words, “hatred”) in response to his analysis. This is a debate technique referred to as _argumentum ad odium_, or the [appeal to spite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appeal_to_spite). This is a logical fallacy in which someone attempts to win favor for their position through an emotional appeal to their audience by associating any opposition to their argument with motives of hate, spite, bitterness or other emotion which the audience would consider to be negative.

I’ll leave it to you, the reader, to draw your own conclusions at the end of this article as to what degree Oz Crypto’s research and sharing of information holds any value. The intent of this writing, however, is not to attack Oz Crypto personally, but to challenge specific topics of discussion presented in the video.

# Comparison to LBRY

Proceeding sequentially through the video, the first issue that is deserving of challenge is a comparison of Hedera to [LBRY](https://lbry.com/). A case was recently settled in favor of the SEC against LBRY wherein the judge ruled that the company’s token offering qualified as a security and that they were in violation of requirements for filing a registration statement. While it is true that Hedera similarly filed a [Notice of Exempt Offering of Securities Form D](https://disclosurequest.com/form/hedera-hashgraph-llc/0001747972-18-000002/?returnURL=) with tokens issued via a Simple Agreements for Future Tokens (SAFT), Hedera is not unique in this regard. According to Judge Barbadoro, “_Nothing in the case law suggests that a token with both consumptive and speculative uses cannot be sold as an investment contract._” That is to say, in this judge’s opinion, any token with an expectation of increased value over time, regardless of intended or actual utility for its respective network, is a security. While this is certainly cause for concern, Oz Crypto is either purposely disingenuous or simply ignorant to the implications this view would have on all crypto currency investments. There really is just no reason to see this verdict against LBRY as uniquely threatening to Hedera as compared to the rest of the industry. If one is going to sell all their HBAR because a judge ruled that LBRY was a security, then they have cognitive dissonance in holding any crypto investments.

# Protocol Description

The second issue I’d like to address is the video’s description of Hedera’s protocol. While the overall description doesn’t at all do Hedera’s consensus algorithm justice, the main exception I took with this segment is with the use of the label “whisper protocol”. The Whisper Protocol is actually the name of Ethereum’s inter-application communication protocol and, while I’ve found [at least one reference](https://www.cada.news/what-is-the-best-fantom-wallet/) related to Hedera’s consensus algorithm design which uses the term “whisper” (which was in the context of Fandom’s algorithm based upon the work of Lemon Baird), stating that Hedera uses “_what they call Whisper Protocol_” is A) simply incorrect and B) is a tell-tale sign that you’ve done little research on Hedera. As most reading this may be familiar, Hedera uses a Gossip protocol (and a novel variation at that) which they refer to as “gossip about gossip”. While this error is of little consequence (for a rose by any other name would smell as sweet), knowledge that the presenter gets the name of the protocol wrong should raise caution as to the degree of depth (and therefore the degree of credibility) to the rest of the information presented in the video.

# Hedera Transaction Speed

A third topic I feel needs to be addressed is the presumed caveat he presents when discussing the speed of Hedera’s network. Oz Crypto states “_It is fast, up to 10,000 transactions per second [… ] wallet to wallet_”. He goes on to say there are limitations and states that the transfer of value is “a very small part” of Hedera’s use cases. The implication: Hedera is only fast when transferring tokens, but slow for the majority of its use cases. While he doesn’t explicitly say this in the video, this seems to be what is suggested. At the very least, the wording would have to be characterized as highly misleading and could result in an erroneous take away of Hedera’s service offerings by uneducated viewers.

Hedera offers 4 main services: the Consensus Service, the Token Service, the Smart Contract Service, and the File Service. There are various types of transactions for each service, [each with their respective speeds](https://docs.hedera.com/guides/mainnet). Of these services, the Consensus Service (HCS) comprises the majority of Hedera’s use cases, making up 85% of the current total network transactions (according to statistics taken from [Metrika](https://app.metrika.co/dashboard/hedera/network-overview?tr=1M)). Hedera’s Token Service (HTS) is the service which is used for token transfers, but both consensus transactions and token transfer transactions are processed at a throttled 10,000 transactions per second. Together, these comprise 90% of Hedera’s transactions. So, contrary to what Oz Crypto’s review implies, Hedera’s 10,000 transaction speed applies to the majority of current use cases on Hedera. It should also be fair to say, future use cases should be expected to follow a similar distribution of transaction usage types. Oz Crypto’s description “_It is fast, up to 10,000 transactions per second wallet to wallet_” should be corrected to “It is fast, up to 10,000 transactions per second for the majority of transactions”.

# Tokenomics

The fourth topic I’d like to discuss is the video’s criticism of Hedera’s tokenomics. The presenter prefaces this segment with a warning: “_This is where things start to get troublesome_”. The issue with this segment pertains to Oz Crypto’s analysis of Hedera’s release schedule in relation to its current unreleased supply. He first presents a chart of Hedera’s current allocation distribution, although it is unclear what point he intends to make by its presentation as the allocation percentages have no relationship or relevance to the ratio of released supply to total supply. What would have been more relevant to his discussion would have been a simple chart showing the relationship of HBAR’s circulating supply to its total supply. That aside, his warning is effectively: _There is further HBAR to be released_ (gasp!). My main point of contention is with his labeling of HBAR as an “inflationary asset” without any context. While it is true that HBAR is currently an inflationary asset (which just means there is more to be released), this is only temporarily true until all of the max supply has been released. HBAR has a max supply of 50 Billion tokens of which approximately 45% have been released since the company’s inception. Once the full supply has been released, however, HBAR will cease to be inflationary. This is very different from platforms which are permanently inflationary (e.g. Dogecoin).

It is also important to note that every point upon a fixed inflationary timeline does not represent an equal amount of downward pressure. Factoring out any irregular distribution amounts for illustration, a distribution of 5% at a point on the timeline with 90% unreleased supply will be perceived by the market very differently than a distribution of 5% at a point on the timeline with only 10% of unreleased supply left. That is to say, the duration of time left and the anticipatory effect further release of supply can possibly have upon value is what is of most import. There are many factors which affect price action. Thus far, I would submit that Hedera’s release schedule has been the least relevant variable (not that the crypto space has even come close to a time period where price was completely, mostly, or even somewhat relevant to the fundamentals of its associated project).

Any discussion concerning the negative implications of Hedera's release schedule is deserving of being balanced by a discussion of its positive implications. There is a specific reason why Hedera hasn’t released a majority of their tokens to the market and it's one that actually should be an encouragement to both network customers and retail investors alike (i.e. a reason to NOT sell your HBAR). That reason is that it’s part of Hedera’s goal to be the most decentralized public network at scale in the market. As a consumer of Hedera’s services, that’s certainly something I want in the network upon which I’m building my own product offerings and as a retail investor that’s certainly a goal which, if achieved, would give Hedera a competitive edge over other DLT networks. An issue present with all proof of stake networks (though the amounts vary) is that accumulation of a given threshold of tokens (33% in Hedera’s case) presents a theoretical threat to two types of attacks: Liveness and Safety. More will be discussed about this later, but suffice it to say that Hedera has a very deliberate plan to control distribution until such time as other factors make these types of attacks improbable. So, while it would seem that Oz Crypto would deem a state of all HBAR having already been released to be a check mark in a pros column for investment (which is certainly partially true), more informed investors would deem this as a check in a cons column, realizing that this would be detrimental to the security of the network until such time as either the network growth or price precludes likelihood of any bad actors being capable of controlling 33% of the released supply. That is to say, recognizing the wisdom in Hedera’s coin distribution plan should be seen as a counter-balance to any perceived negatives resulting from the fact that supply will continue to be released for the next few years. It should be noted, however, that Hedera is taking a very agile approach to coin distribution, as is in keeping with wisdom. Hypothetically, should it happen that certain events lead to a significant increase in value of HBAR over the course of the next few years, this would likely have a significant effect on the release schedule.

The final issue with this segment is his return to the notion that the majority of Hedera’s use cases are reliant upon their Smart Contract Service which, of necessity, do not operate at the speed of the native layer. There isn’t a lot to be said here other than to just discount his concern outright on the basis that he simply has his facts incorrect with respect to the degree smart contracts comprise Hedera’s overall use cases.

# Absence of Slashing

The fifth issue with this video is criticism concerning Hedera’s lack of slashing. The presenter states: “_There’s very little incentive to not be a bad actor_”. For those unfamiliar with the concept, slashing refers to the loss of staked coins in the event a bad actor is deemed to be violating the rules of a network (e.g. failing to build on the longest chain). The first issue with this criticism is that Oz Crypto seems to lack a fundamental understanding of how Hedera’s consensus algorithm works, how it differs from traditional blockchain networks, the instigating motivations for slashing, and its negative implications it can have upon a network. I will not elaborate at length concerning this topic other than to say that the reason Hedera doesn’t use slashing is because the underlying threat simply isn’t there due to Hedera’s superior approach to consensus. The absence of incentive to not be a bad actor in a way possible on other networks is akin to the absence of incentive for a turtle to fly. The incentive to not do so is in the absence of ability. For a full discussion of slashing along with the rationale for its absence on Hedera, I will point the reader to Hedera’s article on the topic: [Hedera Technical Insights: Why is there no Slashing in Hedera's Proof of Stake?](https://hedera.com/blog/why-is-there-no-slashing-in-hederas-proof-of-stake#:~:text=Fundamentally%2C%20Hedera%20Hashgraph%20makes%20certain,make%20those%20guarantees%20any%20stronger.)

# Possibility of Increased Total Supply

A sixth issue is with the video’s discussion of the possibility of increasing HBAR’s supply. To clarify the topic, HBAR has a fixed total supply of 50 billion, but at some future point this fixed value could be increased should all council members unanimously vote to do so. While Oz Crypto does technically use some incorrect language in describing how more HBAR could be minted (i.e. It requires a unanimous decision by all of the council members, not by all the “operating nodes”), the bigger issue is with the haphazard-way he raises this as a concern with absolutely no discussion regarding the high improbability of this event, the pros and cons of this provision, or of the lack of acknowledgement that the possibility of increasing fixed supply is inherent to all cryptocurrencies (yes, even Bitcoin).

Due to the differences in HBAR’s tokenomics, it has different negating incentives to increase the supply than does other networks (i.e. transparency and increased decentralization), but it is also absent the same motivating incentives to increase the supply (i.e. desire for mining rewards). In some distant future for Hedera, the only incentive for all council members to vote to increase the supply would be because the world has become so reliant upon Hedera as the underpinnings for society that the world is beginning to run out of fuel for the network. This would be a future where 50 billion HBAR, even though it has low fees and is pegged to a stable currency (which may not always be USD) is not enough to pay for the number of transactions needed by society. What this might look like is pretty wild to imagine, but whatever the circumstances of this distant future, it would have to be in the best interests of all council members (including Swirlds themselves) to increase supply. It’s hard to image a scenario where minting more HBAR would be what is best for the network, but not for investors as there would be contention between the temporary downwards pressure on price (which would likely be astronomical at this point), and the upwards pressure in what would be driving such a need (which would be increasing utility beyond current capacity).

# The 33% Attack

A seventh issue, which is perhaps the most egregious error made, is his hyperbolic description of the consequence of anyone gaining control of over 33% of HBAR. He states: “_if somebody was able to control a third of HBAR supply, they could change the rules, and by change the rules I mean completely change the way the network operates, change the whisper network, do anything that they wanted to._” That’s quite an elaborate claim! To what degree, however, is this true?

First, the consequence of someone controlling over 33% of HBAR is that it would make it possible to corrupt the consensus history of the network for some limited period of time. The malicious party, however, would not be able to “_change the rules_”, “_completely change the way the network operates_”, or “_do anything that they wanted to_” … including changing the name of the network to the “_Whisper Network_” 😂. The network operates by a fixed set of rules. Nodes must broadcast transactions in the expected format; using the established APIs, protocols, and encryption algorithms; and two-thirds of the operating nodes must come to consensus for a transaction to be finalized. A malicious party could not change any of these facets. The party would only be capable of attacking the network by following the rules of the network. They have to exercise control over two-thirds of the network. Now, you might be thinking “_Wait, I thought we said someone only has to exercise control over 33%._” How this theoretical attack works is that someone exercising 33% of node operations (meaning they physically have the control over the infrastructure and can modify the application code to behave maliciously, not just that they own 33% of HBAR) would also need to gain additional control over another third of the network by preventing it from communicating with the remaining third. By the malicious party commuting one set of consensus transactions to one third and a different set of consensus transactions to the other third, they would be capable of falsifying consensus between themselves and either of the remaining thirds of the network, or both in different ways (e.g. double spending). To achieve this, the malicious party would need to erect a firewall around another third of the network (or collude with a 3rd-party to do so) which would prevent node operators within the firewall from communicating with the other third of the network, while allowing the malicious party’s node transactions through the firewall. Additionally, to control one-third of the node operations, the attacker would need to stake the minimum amount of HBAR per node for a period of at least 24 hours and establish greater than a third of the total number of consensus nodes in order to effect the attack. This would require an extreme amount of investment in both HBAR as well as infrastructure, and any fast accumulation of HBAR would cause prices to increase beyond any reasonable expectation of reaching the required thresholds. In the event an attacker did manage to pull off all of this (i.e. setting up a third of the number of nodes with the minimum staking requirements and be able to effect a firewall around a third of the network), knowledge of this would not go undetected and the attacker would only have a limited window of time in which to act maliciously. This would be quite an elaborate feat and one which is so improbable as to render concern ridiculous.

So, Oz Crypto is incorrect concerning a malicious party’s ability to change how the network works, and (as evidenced by his lack of discussion as to the actual investment, complexity, and coordination needed for the success of such an attack) has grossly exaggerated the degree to which this scenario could ever happen. This, however, isn’t the limit to his error. Let’s recall that Oz Crypto’s video is a discussion of why he has abandoned his investment, not in all of crypto, but in HBAR specifically. This makes his alarmist warning about this theoretical attack problematic for his discussion given that all distributed ledgers are vulnerable to this type of attack.

Discussing the assumptions that are made with respect to asynchronous byzantine fault tolerant proofs, Dr. Leemon Baird states:

> “... you might want to make that one-third be a higher number and there’s a theorem that says … you can’t … a third’s the best you’ll ever be able to achieve. No system can ever do better, so we have to make those assumptions when we’re doing a BFT proof”. <sup>1<sup>

Dr. Baird discusses this fact in a number of other interviews as well, namely his lecture at Harvard on November 20, 2017 <sup>2</sup> as well as other settings. So, if every distributed ledger suffers from this same theoretical attack vector, it is erroneous for Oz Crypto to include this in any list of reasons why someone should avoid investing in HBAR.

# Conclusion

This writing covers seven major points of error made by Oz Crypto, but there are a number of other exceptions one could take with various comments throughout the video. I’ll give this guy the benefit of the doubt and attribute all of his lack of knowledge and misrepresentation about Hedera and HBAR to ignorance rather than willful deception, but overall I do not see Oz Crypto as a channel of trustworthy information. He simply doesn’t do his research and if this is any indication of the degree of knowledge he has about other aspects of crypto currency I certainly would recommend everyone to steer clear of his channel.

---

### References

1\. Dr. Leemon Baird, Cryptoeconomics and Security Conference 2017 [https://youtu.be/pcToFASnyrc?t=190](https://youtu.be/pcToFASnyrc?t=190).

2\. Dr. Leemon Baird, Harvard Talk, November 20th, 2017 [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjQkag6VOo0&t=3690s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjQkag6VOo0&t=3690s)
